>> LAST NIGHT, IN OUR CONTINUE
INVESTIGATION ABOUT HOW HAMAS
PLANNED SATURDAYS ATTACK, WE
BROUGHT YOU THE STORY OF THE
HAMAS OFFICIAL WHO MASTERMINDED
THE BRUTAL SHOUT KNOWN AS THE
GUEST FOR HIS NEED TO LARGE IN
A DIFFERENT LOCATION EVERY
NIGHT TO STAY ALIVE.
TONIGHT, CLARISSA WARD JOINS US
AGAIN WITH NEW INFORMATION
ABOUT WHERE THESE GUNMAN
TRAINED, AND HOW THEY WERE
RIGHT UNDER THE NOSES, IN SOME,
CASE OF THE ISRAELI DEFENSE
FORCES FOR YEARS CLARISSA, WHAT
HAVE YOU LEARNED?
>> THAT'S RIGHT, ANDERSON,
THERE HAS BEEN SO MUCH
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
INTELLIGENCE FAILURES THAT LED
UP TO THE ATROCITIES LAST
SATURDAY.
CNN'S OPEN SOURCE INVESTIGATOR,
PAUL MURPHY, HAS SPENT THE LAST
FEW DAYS POURING THROUGH A
YEARS OF SOCIAL MEDIA VIDEO,
SATELLITE IMAGERY, AND THE
RESULTS AND THE FINDINGS ARE
SHOCKING.
[SOUND OF GUNFIRE]
>> PROPAGANDA VIDEOS PUT OUT BY
HAMAS WERE REVEALING CHILLING
DETAILS ABOUT THE YEARS OF
PREPARATIONS THAT WENT INTO
SATURDAY'S BLOODY ATTACKS
RIGHTS UNDER ISRAEL'S NOSE.
ANALYZING METADATA FROM THE
VIDEOS, A CNN INVESTIGATION CAN
REVEAL THE PRESENCE OF AT LEAST
SIX TRAINING SITES INSIDE GAZA.
ONE JUST 720 METERS FROM THE
MOST HEAVILY FORTIFIED PART OF
ISRAEL'S BORDER.
IN THAT CAMP, HAMAS RECREATED
AND HE'S REALLY COMPOUND, WITH
ELEMENTS OF THE NEARBY BORDER
CROSSING, INCLUDING AN INSIGNIA
OF THE AREAS RETALIATION.
THE VIDEO SHOWED THE EVEN
PRACTICE TAKING PRISONERS, AND
ZIP TYING THEIR HANDS AT THE
CAMP.
SATELLITE IMAGERY INDICATES THE
CAMP WAS CONSTRUCTED WITHIN THE
LAST YEAR AND A HALF.
TWO OTHER LOCATIONS IN THE
SOUTHERN PARTS OF GAZA, HAMAS
TRAINED FOR THEIR AUDACIOUS
PARAGLIDER ASSAULT, REHEARSING
TAKEOFFS AND LANDINGS AT ALL
SIX SITES, TWO YEARS OF
SATELLITE IMAGERY REVIEWED BY
CNN SHOWS NO INDICATION OF
OFFENSIVE ISRAELI MILITARY
ACTION.
THE IMAGERY INSTEAD SHOWS THAT
IN THE LAST TWO YEARS, SOME
CAMPS EVEN EXPANDED INTO
FARMLAND, ANOTHER'S ACTIVITY IN
THE CAMPS.
THE STUNNING REVELATIONS RAISED
QUESTIONS AS TO HOW HAMAS WAS
ABLE TO TRAIN SO OPENLY, SO
CLOSE TO THE BORDER FOR SO
LONG.
WHY ISRAELI OFFICIALS WERE
UNABLE TO PICK UP ON AND
PREVENT THE OCTOBER 7TH ATTACK.
>> CLARISSA, WHAT'S THE IDEA'S
RESPONSE TO THIS?
>> WE HAVE COURSE REACHED OUT
AND ASKED HIM FOR A STATEMENT,
WHICH THEY HAVE PROVIDED.
I WANT TO READ A VERBATIM WE
CANNOT PROVIDE ANSWERS TO YOUR
QUESTIONS, SINCE THEY RELATE TO
THE COMPLEX ANALYSIS OF
INTELLIGENCE AT THE SAME TIME
THAT WE ARE FIGHTING A WAR.
THIS TOPIC TOGETHER WOULD
NUMEROUS OTHER ISSUES WILL BE
INVESTIGATED BY THE IDF AT THE
END OF THE WAR.
IT IS WORTH MENTIONING,
ANDERSON, THAT HISTORICALLY
THERE HAVE BEEN MANY STRIKES
THAT ISRAELI DEFENSE FORCES
HAVE MATES ON HAMAS TRAINING
CAMPS.
ALSO, I WOULD JUST MENTION,
THESE QUESTIONS THAT WE ARE
ASKING OUR QUESTIONS THAT A LOT
OF ISRAELIS WANT ANSWERS TO.
THE TIMING MAY NOT BE RIGHT NOW,
I THINK PEOPLE APPRECIATE THAT
THAT'S NOT NECESSARILY THE
PRIORITY.
BUT, THEY WILL WANT THOSE
ANSWERS, ANDERSON.
>> THERE IS ALSO QUESTION ABOUT
U.S. INTELLIGENCE FAILURES.
ASSUMING THAT, I MEAN, GIVEN
THE U.S. INTELLIGENCE
CAPABILITIES THEY DIDN'T SEE
THIS EITHER.
>> I THINK THERE ARE MANY
QUESTIONS, ANDERSON, ABOUT HOW
ON EARTH THIS COULD HAVE
HAPPENS.
I MEAN, YOU LOOK AT THAT VIDEO
A TRAINING WITH A REPLICA OF
THE BORDER CROSSING, THAT WAS
LESS THAN A KILOMETER AWAY FROM
THE BORDER CROSSING.
YOU SEE THE SCALE AND THE SCOPE
OF SOME OF THOSE CAMPS.
IT'S HARD TO FATHOM OR
UNDERSTAND THAT IT WOULD BE
POSSIBLE THAT THE ISRAELIS AND
OTHER SUPPORTERS WOULD NOT BE
AWARE OF IT.
THE ASSUMPTION MAY BE THAT THEY
WERE AWARE OF IT, THAT THEY
PERHAPS DID NOT UNDERSTAND OR
MISINTERPRETED THE INTELLIGENCE,
DIDN'T SEE IT AS A DIRECT
THREAT.
AGAIN, THAT IS SPECULATIVE, WE
DON'T KNOW.
WHAT WE DO KNOW IS THAT THERE
WILL BE AT SOME POINT A DEEP
DIVE INVESTIGATION BY THE
ISRAELIS, AND THE ISRA